# Cost optimization review

The Well-Architected Assessment is a top-down review of your workload to
identify what could be improved in your architecture. In this step we will start
focussing on the costs of your workload, what are the most common pain points
and how to improve them. We will be doing this work in three levels, so you can
go deeper if you want or just scratch the surface when you need to focus on
other pillars first. This will help on the most immediate and direct impact of
the recommendations.

## Level 1 - Cost Management, Sizing and Reservations

When the solution is already deployed in Azure, you first stop is the
**[Azure Advisor][advisor]** where you will find recommendations based on the
telemetry of your workload. With this telemetry you already have the usage
patterns and a lot more information about the workload. This information helps
on building meaningful recommendations.

Take a look to the **cost over the past 12 months** to identify outliners, and
compare it to the **budget** you have for this application.

Check that there are **alerts** configured and that they are aligned with the
budget.

Get an estimation of the *operational costs* of the current architecture.

Review that the size and SKUs of the services is aligned with the utilization
patterns, and check auto-shutdown, scaling and using spot instances where
available.

Using the 12 month costs, check if you can apply
**[reservations][reservations]** on your resources, know what type of resources
you can reserve (compute, database, storage, caching...). Find if you can apply
to other discounts like the **hybrid benefits** and **Dev/Test licenses**.

### Summary

* [ ] Look into [Azure Advisor][advisor]
* [ ] Get the past 12 month costs
* [ ] Review the budget
* [ ] Check alerts
* [ ] Calculate operational costs
* [ ] Check reservations and other offers

## Level 2 - Resources and Locations

Review **unused resources** and if you have the mechanisms to stop them or having
environments on demand.
Review the **retention time** for backups, and check that you backup only the
data that cannot be recovered by other means like **Infrastructure as Code**.
Check your resources location, some regions are cheaper, but take into account
**egress, peering and gateway costs**.
Analyze **disk performances** and **replication configuration**, for example:
what are your replication needs for the storage accounts?

## Level 3 - Architecture changes

There are **architecture patterns** that can reduce costs. Check the use of
workers, queues, caching and sharding. Is it possible to extract the most
intensive processes to **on-demand workers**? This would reduce the base cost
of the solution by reducing the SKUs where the main workload is deployed.

Check the use of **compression** and **code optimizations**.

Evaluate the migration to **PaaS or Container** services to enhance costs.

## Resources

* [What is FinOps?][finops]
* [Azure Cost Management][costmanagement]
* [TCO Calculator][tco]
* [Azure pricing calculator][pricing]
* [Cost Trade-offs][tradeoffs]

## Checkpoint

* [ ] A clear Cost Model for the workload
* [ ] Cost savings calculations for the most important recommendations
* [ ] Effort evaluation for optimizations related to cost
* [ ] Cost trade-offs

Now you can move to the next pillar: [Security][3.B]

[advisor]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/advisor/
[costmanagement]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/cost-management-billing-overview
[finops]: https://www.finops.org/introduction/what-is-finops/
[pricing]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/
[reservations]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/reservations/save-compute-costs-reservations
[tco]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/tco/calculator/
[tradeoffs]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/framework/cost/tradeoffs
[prev]: 02.Collection.md
[next]: 03.B.Security.md

[&lt; prev][prev] &nbsp; [1][1] &nbsp; [2][2] &nbsp; ([3][3]) &nbsp;
[4][4] &nbsp; [5][5] &nbsp; [6][6] &nbsp; [next &gt;][next]

---

## Index

* Discover
  * [Workload mind map][1]
  * [Information collection][2]
* [Analyze][3]
  * [Cost Optimization][3.A]
  * [Security][3.B]
  * [Reliability][3.C]
  * [Performance Efficiency][3.D]
  * [Operational Excellence][3.E]
* Prioritize
  * [Priority Matrix][4]
  * [Write the roadmap][5]
* [Present the results][6]

[1]: 01.Workload.md
[2]: 02.Collection.md
[3]: 03.Analyze.md
[3.A]: 03.A.CostOptimization.md
[3.B]: 03.B.Security.md
[3.C]: 03.C.Reliability.md
[3.D]: 03.D.Performance.md
[3.E]: 03.E.Operations.md
[4]: 04.Prioritize.md
[5]: 05.Roadmap.md
[6]: 06.Finalize.md
