# Review your workload

During the prerequisites, you wrote down your workload profile, now let's try to
do a mind map and a stakeholder analysis of your workload.

## Architecture diagram

During the scope meeting you may have obtained the architecture diagram of the
solution, but, if you didn't, this is the time to ask for it. You will need this
diagram to identify the most obvious problems, like bottlenecks or availability
issues, and it will also be used for the Subscription Walkthrough step.

If you don't have a current architecture diagram, you can take a look to the
[Azure Architecture Center][archcenter] as a source of inspiration to create
your own one.

> :pill: You can use a tool like [Visio][visio] or [Draw.io][drawio]. These
tools already contain a full set of the Azure Icons, or you can
[download them][azureicons] to use with your favourite tool.

## Describe the workload

Gather the most important technical details of your workload. Some topics
usually are:

* Development platforms and programming languages used
* External services needed (dependencies)
* Provided connectors (dependent services)
* Data: databases, storage, sources
* Deployment tools
* How do you capture logs and other metrics
* Special infrastructure and network requirements (VMs, containers, VPNs, Hybrid
scenarios, ExpressRoute, network appliances)
* Are all these points covered in the architecture diagram?
* Does the architecture diagram show all the Azure resources used?

## Create a Responsibility Assignment Matrix

[The matrix][raci] is a table that shows the roles and responsibilities of each
team member, using the following role distinctions: \[R\]esponsible,
\[A\]ccountable, \[C\]onsulted, \[I\]nformed.

| *Phase/Stakeholder* | **CTO** | **Team Lead(s)** | **Solution Owner** | **Project Manager** |**Architect** | **...** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Discover |
| Analyze |
| Prioritize |
| Design |

## Resources

These are some tools and resources you can use during this first step:

* [Mind map][mindmap]
* [User Journey map][userjourney]
* [Value Proposition Canvas][vpcanvas]
* [RACI][raci]
* [Visio][visio]
* [Draw.io][drawio]
* [Azure icons][azureicons]
* [Azure Architecture Center][archcenter]

---

## Checkpoint

* [ ] Workload technical description (mind map or bullet points)
* [ ] Workload Architecture Diagram
* [ ] RACI matrix

When you have finished these two tasks, continue to the
[Information Collection][2] step.

[archcenter]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/browse/
[azureicons]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/icons/
[drawio]: https://app.diagrams.net/
[mindmap]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_map
[userjourney]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_journey
[vpcanvas]: https://businessmodelanalyst.com/value-proposition-canvas
[raci]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responsibility_assignment_matrix
[visio]: https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/visio/visio-in-microsoft-365
[prev]: ../
[next]: 02.Collection.md

[&lt; prev][prev] &nbsp; ([1][1]) &nbsp; [2][2] &nbsp; [3][3] &nbsp;
[4][4] &nbsp; [5][5] &nbsp; [6][6] &nbsp; [next &gt;][next]

---

## Index

* Discover
  * [Workload mind map][1]
  * [Information collection][2]
* [Analyze][3]
  * [Cost Optimization][3.A]
  * [Security][3.B]
  * [Reliability][3.C]
  * [Performance Efficiency][3.D]
  * [Operational Excellence][3.E]
* Prioritize
  * [Priority Matrix][4]
  * [Write the roadmap][5]
* [Present the results][6]

[1]: 01.Workload.md
[2]: 02.Collection.md
[3]: 03.Analyze.md
[3.A]: 03.A.CostOptimization.md
[3.B]: 03.B.Security.md
[3.C]: 03.C.Reliability.md
[3.D]: 03.D.Performance.md
[3.E]: 03.E.Operations.md
[4]: 04.Prioritize.md
[5]: 05.Roadmap.md
[6]: 06.Finalize.md
