# Information collection

You need to gather and organize as much information as you can from your
workload. It is important to get the business implications of the
architectural decissions you did take when designing the current architecture.
When you have your workload already deployed in Azure, you can use some tools
to gather much more information, insights of how your workload is performing
and what characteristics can be enhanced.

* [Azure Advisor][advisor] is a service inside your Azure subscription that
provides recommendations aligned with the Well-Architected Framework, based
on the current usage and telemetry of your workload.
* [Well-Architected Assessment Review][wafreview] is the main tool you will
use for the assessment. It is an online survey that helps you analyze your
workload from many perspectives and provides you with a detailed report of
recommendations. Furthermore, the survey can be connected to the Azure Advisor
service to enhance the recommendations.
* The [Continuous Cloud Optimization Power BI Dashboards][ccodashboard] GitHub
repository contains a set of dashboards that connect to your Azure Subscription
and provide many insights about questions you may not have answered in the
assessment. For example, are you sure that you are correctly tagging your
resources? or, are you using the right pricing model?

## Prepare the assessment

You will need:

* [ ] An account with at least read access to the susbscription or management
group where the workload is deployed.
* [ ] A detailed architecture diagram of the workload.
* [ ] Download and configure the
[Continuous Cloud Optimization Power BI Dashboards][ccodashboard] with a
read-only account.
* [ ] Block a few hours meeting to start the assessment with the team you
identified in your RACI matrix.

### The Well-Architected Assessment Review

Create a new assessment in the [Well-Architected Assessment Review][wafreview]
tool. It is recommended to link your Azure Subscription to get the Advisor
score. The most common survey is the one named *Core Well-Architected Review*
and you need to configure the pillars you want to evaluate. As already stated,
if you are not sure about the pillars you want to evaluate, take 2 or 3 at
most. One of the most popular ones is the *Cost Optimization Pillar*.

Take your time to understand every question. To fill the survey can take
between a couple of hours and a few days, depending on the number of pillars
selected and if you have access to all the information.

Once finished, **export the report in CSV format**, we will use this file later
with a tool that will help us to prioritize the recommendations.

![Example image of the assessment guidance and the link to export the
results][export]

### Azure Subscription Walkthrough

To enhance the recommendations and find some new ones that may not be captured
by the Review and the Advisor. This is usually done opening the portal and
reviewing the different resource groups and resources, but you can also use some
tools to do this.

* [AzViz][azviz] is a tool that allows you to graphically visualize the
resources and dependencies in your Azure Subscription.
* [The Continuous Cloud Optimization Power BI Dashboards][ccodashboard] is an
essential tool to understand the current state of your workload. This tool will
allow you to get the insights about compliance, current resource sizes, tagging
and many more things.

## Checkpoint

* [ ] Azure Well-Architected Review results and answers (web + csv).
* [ ] Diagram vs real resources discrepancy table.
* [ ] Additional notes about the workload.

[advisor]: https://azure.microsoft.com/services/advisor/
[wafreview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/assessments/
[ccodashboard]: https://github.com/Azure/ccodashboard
[azviz]: https://github.com/PrateekKumarSingh/AzViz
[export]: ./images/export_to_csv.png "Export to CSV in the Well-Architected Assessment Review"

[prev]: 01.Workload.md
[next]: 03.A.CostOptimization.md

[&lt; prev][prev] &nbsp; [1][1] &nbsp; ([2][2]) &nbsp; [3][3] &nbsp;
[4][4] &nbsp; [5][5] &nbsp; [6][6] &nbsp; [next &gt;][next]

---

## Index

* Discover
  * [Workload mind map][1]
  * [Information collection][2]
* [Analyze][3]
  * [Cost Optimization][3.A]
  * [Security][3.B]
  * [Reliability][3.C]
  * [Performance Efficiency][3.D]
  * [Operational Excellence][3.E]
* Prioritize
  * [Priority Matrix][4]
  * [Write the roadmap][5]
* [Present the results][6]

[1]: 01.Workload.md
[2]: 02.Collection.md
[3]: 03.Analyze.md
[3.A]: 03.A.CostOptimization.md
[3.B]: 03.B.Security.md
[3.C]: 03.C.Reliability.md
[3.D]: 03.D.Performance.md
[3.E]: 03.E.Operations.md
[4]: 04.Prioritize.md
[5]: 05.Roadmap.md
[6]: 06.Finalize.md
